today is all about the word brand we're
going to be talking about how to develop
your personal brand specifically on
Instagram but really across social media
as a whole and we're going to be talking
about brand deals also known as
Partnerships sponsorships influencer
marketing no matter what word you use to
describe it we're going to be talking
about how to get those brand deals what
brands are looking for and how to score
brand deals even without a massive
following today I have the honor of
interviewing the host of the influencer
podcast Julie Solomon who is an absolute
expert in this space she crushes it on
social media and she's helped tens of
thousands of people build their personal
Brands develop their voice online and
start to get paid for posting on social
media also since getting started in this
space about 10 years ago Julie has
earned over 8 figures worth of brand
deals and Partnerships which is pretty
flipp and mind-blowing she is definitely
someone very credible in this space I do
want to let you know before we get into
the actual interview the first half of
the interview is focused around the idea
of branding how to de velop your brand
what can allow you to stand out what is
and what is not branding on social media
and then the second half of the
conversation is where we're going to
dive deeper into brand deals
Partnerships sponsorships whatever you
want to call them just so you know but I
highly recommend listening to the entire
episode because Julie is such a wealth
of knowledge and her stories are not
only very relatable authentic and
personable I think they give great
context and great ideas or examples as
to what you can expect in your own
Journey whether it is developing your
brand or search for brand deals without
further Ado here's the
interview Julie welcome to the build
your tribe podcast ah thank you for
having me Brock I know this has been
like a fun long time coming you're about
to come on my podcast which is going to
be super exciting so I'm excited to be
into your your world and with your
community today yeah absolutely this is
great I've been following you for quite
a long time and I know we finally got to
connect and now we're able to share each
other's knowledge with each other's
audiences so this should be um a really
great podcast today I know some of thep
topics that you are an expert in are
also topics that our audience loves and
loves to hear about um so yeah this
should be great I wanted to start though
uh with I think there's like two words
in marketing that everyone knows and
everyone says but also everyone has a
different definition for and it's the
word Niche and the word brand or
branding like yes everyone has also
people just for the sake of it they say
Niche or Niche but anyways that's
besides the point let's talk about
branding uh because that's really one of
your real expertises and one of the
areas that you really excel in helping
people out with um so how do you define
the word brand or branding yeah so I
think that when it comes to this
definition you actually have to start
with what brand
isn't because it's not a lot of things
that people say that it is um for
example um it's not a logo you know a
logo is a very useful tool for a
business but it's not a brand um it's
not your content
it's not a product so when people talk
about buying this brand or that brand or
working with this brand or that or that
brand they're really talking about
buying one product or another so a brand
is not really that either um I really
think at the heart of it what a brand
really is is it's the result of
someone's got feeling about what it is
that you put out there it's really your
reputation at the end of the day MH and
so brand to me equals reput reputation
it is the perception that people have of
essentially whatever it is that you're
throwing at them and I think that as
long as people kind of have that group
together and and really defined where
they want it to be and go then it's
great and it catches and it connects and
you're able to attract your audience and
bring them into your world but most
people don't really have it put together
in the way that they want it to be and
so from that you have an in congruence
with your messaging and your audience
and then essentially what you throw at
them kind of becomes completely off Mark
so does that make sense it does it does
it does I think I've seen this uh meme
being passed around recently that says
something along the lines of if Nike
came out with a hotel we can all
envision exactly what that hotel would
look like but if Marriott came out with
a shoe who knows what that shoe would
look like so I love that example and I
think you know there such a useful
practice to tell us also what branding
is not because I feel like another thing
that I hear all the time on Instagram is
that branding is the colors and the
fonts that you're using on Instagram and
that's what a brand is on Instagram I
can see you shaking your head so I know
that's not the right answer what do you
think does make up the kind of essential
elements that we need to have in place
specifically when we're thinking about
our personal brand on social media yeah
so you know what you just brought up is
just that that's just one visual element
right it's your you know the fonts the
colors the typography those kinds of
things do bring a visual Essence to your
brand but there's also things that
people need to hear touch taste smell uh
consume think feel to really bring your
brand to life and kind of going back to
what I said earlier if your brand is
your reputation and then branding is
really the process of establishing and
promoting and influencing what that
reputation is and so at the end of the
day personal branding and kind of
getting it into how I Define that and
really answering the question that you
just shared it's the story that you
share about yourself and so what aspects
do you need to share a story about
yourself you need some visual aspects
that's just one component to it but
there's a lot of other things that you
need as well you need authenticity you
need consistency you need
differentiation in the marketplace you
need a unique value proposition and you
need emotional connection and how that
comes through the senses are through a
myriad of different ways that makes
sense that makes sense now where do you
fall on the spectrum because I I hear
everything under the sun of some people
say just whip open your social media
accounts and start posting and figure
out your brand as you go some people are
like no you need to spend you know six
months doing an intense Deep dive to
figure out your brand get it solidified
and then launch where do you fall in
this spectrum and what are your thoughts
around like for for the newbies the
people who are listening today who you
know they don't have a huge following or
maybe they haven't been on Instagram or
Tik Tok or whatever for very long how
should they approach branding yeah so I
think that when it comes to our our
minds and our brains really want this
like set date right like how long is it
going to take me to do this thing and I
think that we first need to kind of move
that out of the way and and get to the
heart of of actually what it is that we
are bringing to the table because if we
keep trying to really Curel everything
to this process of like let's just keep
throwing content out there and seeing
what sticks or I need to have this set
thing within six months I I still think
people are missing the mark so I will
say the first thing is that there's this
idea of just just get started right we
hear it all the time just get started
and You' just got to get started you got
to get out of your mind and into the
ding if you just get started that is the
way that you grow and I agree with that
to a certain extent I think it is
important to get started but you don't
want to just get started you want to
make sure that you're getting started on
the right things and I think that it's
when people just get started for the
sake of getting started is when they can
get very lost and kind of throwing darts
blindfolded and missing the Mark again
when it comes to their brand their
branding the content the messaging and
so for me it's really um it's it's
really about setting the stage for what
do you need to start on first because to
me that's really what creates the
sustainability and the sustainability is
what we are looking for and there's so
many trending words out there passive
consistent sustainable um but to me
sustainability is really the definition
of sustainability is you know being able
to be maint maintained at a certain rate
or level so as long as we are focusing
on what is making me sustainable not so
much at let me throw a bunch of content
out there and see what sticks or let me
go through a six-month process then I
think that that is where you're actually
going to start to see some some more
sustainable wins and so focusing on that
sustainable that sustainability I think
the first step most people don't ever
really do is what I call your brand
Discovery stage and this is really about
getting clear on differentiating who you
are and why the heck anyone should care
gotcha most people love just to go to
straight to to creating content or
straight to trying to make money or
straight to generating offers without
ever really getting clear on
differentiating who they are why that's
important and and really starting to
build from there yeah so you know the
brand Discovery phase helps you
differentiate yourself it helps you
really claim what your unique place is
in the marketplace which kind of goes
back to that other word that you shared
earlier earlier which is Niche I don't
really like to use the word Niche I
don't really care what anyone's Niche is
nor do I care to even figure out how to
define it what I help my students figure
out is let's move Niche over here let's
focus on what it is that you specialize
in what do you specialize in because I
think that that word n can get people so
tripped up and that idea of what you
specialize in that is revealed and
unfolded in that brand Discovery piece
and I love to kind of think back to like
early 2000s Britney and Christina like I
know I'm aging myself right now but when
you think about Britney and Christina
yes they were both incredibly popular
pop pop stars but their brands were
unique like on one side you had Britney
who at the time was kind of portrayed as
this goody two shoes and then you had
Christina which was more of this like
edgy bad girl but you know they were
both singers around the same age they
were both blonde they both came from The
Mickey Mouse Club but it was a strategic
decision by their teams to uniquely
differentiate them gotcha and so that is
why I think brand Discovery is so
important there's other levels that come
after that your brand development your
messaging your communication your
monetization but if you don't really get
clear on that brand Discovery piece
first you are going to quickly find
yourself whether that's two weeks from
now or six months from now spinning your
wheels because you don't have a
foundation to really grow from yeah that
totally makes sense and I want to talk
more about this but first I know that
you do have an upcoming boot camp um so
I wanted to give you an opportunity to
tell us a little bit more about that of
course the link is in the show notes but
I'd love if you could share more about
this boot camp because I think it really
relates to what we're talking about
right now absolutely it's going to
basically take what we're talking about
today and I'm going to deepen the
concepts of that if you just go to Julie
solomon. netboot Camp you can read about
it you can save your seat it's
completely free it is a it's over a
5-day period we have three days where we
really root into some of the stuff that
I'm sharing about today so you can
re-clarify your strategy and really
start laying the Pieces of What Makes
You unique and different so you can
start to create consistent sustainable
income you can start to really pull in
that engaged audience and start creating
content in a way that is smarter not
necessarily harder and so that is what
the boot camp is going to be covering
and you can go to Julie salon.net booot
camp for more info there I love that and
I think this is so impactful as well
because I know these are like buzzwords
and and things we hear all the time on
social media but really things like
authenticity and if I'm to get granular
here the the storytelling within content
and the ability to uniquely show up as
yourself in your content rather than
having these like hyperedited reels and
short form videos that every single
expert has nowadays and these like fake
podcasts that everyone is creating for
themselves um I think that branding is
going to play such a huge role in
standing out um so continuing to to stay
on this topic of branding what are some
areas that you see commonly uh that
people are overthinking when it comes to
branding I mean the big one you said it
earlier is that Niche that Niche idea of
getting so I think scared maybe to Niche
down and you know to me I was just
reading an article um from um earlier
this year um where it said that creators
and personal Brands will have to become
more specialized in 2024 and I think
that's because with a larger pool of
creators on social media we have to
carve out a unique Niche and again a
value proposition that is of high value
for many creators because you're going
to get a lot of people doing the sticky
stuff right kind of the stuff that we
just mentioned like pulling this all
together but how do you make sure that
you can sustain and really be here a
year from now five years from now MH and
with they're being over 50 million users
on soci social media that consider
themselves creators but the average
income per Creator is under
$1,000 wow it just goes to show that you
have to become more specialized in your
field in your Niche and what it is that
you do in order to sustain yeah and I
think that most people have a problem
with niching down with specializing in
something yeah and I'm sure you hear it
too Brock of just fears about well if I
Niche down doesn't that mean that I'm
going to miss out on so many
opportunities or what if that actually
means that I get so focused on one thing
that I'm saying no to other people but I
think that rnie when it comes down to
any industry that most people are in
it's vital to specialize because
specialization deals with building
authority and trust and every industry
needs Authority and Trust if you don't
have authority and trust you have
nothing yeah and I think the most
important piece to this to really help
shift people's perspective here is that
you don't don't need to be the biggest
brand in the world to dominate a market
or industry you just need to be so
specialized that people would feel silly
saying no to you and so me I have a role
that I share with my students that is
the bigger the market the more that you
need to specialize why obviously because
there's more competition and you always
do better if you do less and I think
that that's something that people they
misconstrue they think that more means
better but we always do better if we
just do less and so it's about thinking
about that specialization piece and the
other thing that people will say is like
well what H how do I start to shift that
what if I'm new to the game or I'm I'm
in a transition period how do I actually
start to shift the niche and you know to
where I can still sustain a living I can
still make money I can still do those
things and the way that I shifted it
back from when I went from being a
full-time publicist to then coming into
the online space and becoming an online
coach and a consultant on Brands and and
brand deals is that there were things
that I could talk about when it came to
what it is that I offered you know if
let's say if someone came to me and said
Julie can I get you know one-on-one time
for Consulting well let's say that
that's not really what I wanted to
specialize in it's not really what I
wanted to be known for I might have done
it at the time because it was helping me
build my authority my know my like my
trust and it made me money but I'm not
going to necessarily Market it or talk
about it and I think that that's the
thing that people kind of get get lost
with is that they they feel like they
have to offer essentially everything
that they're niching out about and it's
and I just I feel like in the beginning
of those stages if you can just kind of
keep those clients or keep those deals
or keep those offers for now but just
don't make it a part of the brand
messaging don't make it a part of the
marketing take it for now if it's making
you money but don't talk about it as if
that is what you specialize in you want
to start creating content and creating a
message and building a message around
what it is that you specialize in and
that's where again I go back to that
brand Discovery piece and then what's
after that is the brand development that
helps you get there gotcha gotcha well
you also kind of just answered my my
next question which I was going to ask
about you know the flip side of that
coin I was going to ask what what do you
think people are underthinking or not
spending enough time but I think you've
kind of just already answered that
already for us so that is helpful I
would love to then kind of now pivot and
talk about brand deal
and you know there's a million different
names for these things influencer
marketing sponsorships Partnerships
whatever basically getting paid for
posting content is what I would love to
to talk about because I think that there
are so many misconceptions around this
and yet there are so many people like
you and I and so many other people in
our space who are really trying to
encourage people to uh get into this
space and explore it because it can be
such a great income Stream So with this
becoming so much more of a competitive
space
with the number of ugc creators and
brand deals and Affiliates just rapidly
booming how can people actually stand
out uh specifically so that they can get
these brand deals yep well I think it
again it starts with knowing like what
do I specialize in what am I good at
what is that thing that makes me just
just enough of having a competitive
advantage to be unique and different and
so I'll actually share a story I have
been in the world of branding PR and
marketing for over 15 years started as a
publicist which I mentioned before and
then got into the world specifically of
brand deals back in 2014 so I been doing
this for almost nine years now um and I
started doing this and I'll share a
quick little story back in 2014 I did
not have a following at all but because
of my background in PR and and pitching
and and knowing how to communicate I had
this little unique Advantage I didn't
have the followers but I had this
education and this understanding and
this experience so what I started doing
is I started pitching myself for brand
deals and I was able to monetize my blog
because at the time they weren't called
influencers it wasn't called influencer
marketing it was called YouTube and
blogging and how are you monetizing your
blog or your YouTube channel and so I
started to be able to monetize my blog
fairly quickly with just you know $2,000
here $55,000 here $1,500 there by
specifically knowing how to pitch myself
for the brand I couldn't pitch that I
had a lot of followers because I didn't
I couldn't pitch that I had a lot of
reach because I didn't but what could
what could I pitch I could pitch um at
the time I was kind of like a a mommy
content creator because I just had my
son so I was focusing in on a mom Niche
and I was also focusing in on a media
Niche because of my unique background I
knew how to also pitch to media and so I
would use those two things as a way to
kind of marry and create value for the
brand so what started happening is that
people started coming to me and they
were like Julie how is is it that you're
consistently monetizing your blog and I
don't mean to be rude but you have like
no followers and no big Lifestyle brand
I have 10 times as more followers as you
do but I'm not able to monetize it like
you are and so I knew that there was an
Avenue here that needed to be dove into
more and around the same time I was
living in a house with my husband and we
needed to kind of um reshift some things
internally with like the design because
I was working for home he was working
from home we had a baby that was turning
into a toddler we needed some shifts and
so I pitched to a bunch of different
furniture outlets on like hey do you
want to work with me on a collaboration
so um you know I can we can kind of work
you know a touted thing that you can
because some of these Furniture
companies it's expensive what they're
giving you so I was like if I don't even
make money off of this if I could just
offset the cost of new furniture and
interior design then that would be a win
for me so I started doing this and
everyone was saying no they were like no
you don't have the following no you
don't have the reach no you don't like
what are you bringing to the table like
you have nothing and so instead of just
giving up at that point and being like
well I'm not going to be able to make
this happen I got curious and I started
thinking okay I don't have any of those
typical kind of like General things
which to me it's kind of like lazy
because it's like the first thing that
you can say oh well you don't have a
following I'm not going to work with you
so I was like okay how can I get
creative and I was like okay so I don't
have any of that but what I do have is
an understanding of media so then I
asked I know it's crazy but I asked a
question and I said to the brands what
if I could get you media would you find
that valuable and they said yeah we
would find that really valuable and I
was like okay cool please hold so then I
shifted and pivoted instead of pitching
the brands because I was pitching West
Elm World Market um a lot of brands at
the time I started pitching media
outlets and I had been doing some
contributing posts as a mom blogger for
places like like mom. me and pop sugar
moms and People magazine moms and all
kinds of stuff again just trying to
build up my online brand my online
presence and getting my content out
there and so then I started pitching to
media and I was like hey would you be
interested in a in an article or a blog
post about a you know parent and Me Home
Makeover where we talk about how a
family of three is having to live in one
space and how are we transitioning those
elements I got to know I got to know I
got to know and then I gotta Maybe
and people.com said we are starting to
create more content around mom and home
life so we could be interested in this
however we would need to see more than
just one room so like you know could you
get a bigger opportunity for us to shoot
more content around to make this a win
and I was like okay so there's a little
door that's been cracked here so what do
I need to do then so then I kept getting
a little bit more Curious I was like I
need to go back to the brands to see
which one of these Brands could be
interested and a potential collaboration
with people so I went back to West Elm I
went back to you know bunch of the ones
that I was talking to and then World
Market said okay you've actually given
us something of value here we could be
potentially interested in this um but
there are a couple things that we would
need we would need you know a.com
feature we would need to be able to link
our you know post to this we could set
up an affiliate count for People
magazine if they want to get credit for
the link back but we would need certain
things we' need a carousel so I was like
okay so then I took that information
took it back to People magazine and it
was a little bit of back and forth of
little things like this but from the
time that I initially had the idea cut
to about four months later I had gone
from getting pretty much a no from
everybody because I had no following no
platform no big Lifestyle brand to
getting a value of over
$250,000 worth of furniture and Interior
Design Services to completely remodel my
entire home wow
wow that is powerful that is powerful
and it goes to show for anyone that's
sitting there and telling themselves I
don't have enough following or I don't
have the reach or I wasn't a publicist
in my past life like Julie was there was
something that you were in your quote
unquote past life that is bringing
current value to either where you are
today or where you want to be and so how
are you tapping into that and again this
long story really goes back to again
that brand Discovery piece that I am
talking about if I wouldn't have taken
the time to really tapped into what my
own specialization and uniqueness was I
would have never even thought to
leverage my background in media and PR
to use that as an idea and since then
this was back in
2016 that this deal happened that was
literally the Catalyst for Brands
working with content creators in a
capacity like that World Market went on
to do about seven seven different
campaigns with other cont content
creators specifically with
peoplemagazine.com because of the
initial one that I did and so it just
goes to show that if you can just remain
open and creative and allow yourself to
remain curious how much more can
actually be available to you and I would
say now in
2024 like there's going to be so many
more opportunity and so much available
to you now than there was for me back in
2016 I took the little thing that I
could make something out of and I just
kept working at it and I was n throwing
darts blindfolded like I I had a
specific goal and angle so I wasn't just
creating pitches and content just to
create P pitches and content I had an
end goal but I just kept moving towards
that I love that and it also it's it
speaks to your resourcefulness at that
time because like nowadays most brands
are familiar the big brands have all
done brand Partnerships even the small
mediumsized brands or companies
corporations whatever they've
experimented with it they're at least
familiar with it if nothing else if they
don't even have um a person if not an
entire team dedicated to this thing now
so kudos to you for that resourcefulness
and I think that story should hopefully
Inspire our listeners as well who even
if you have 200 followers even if you're
just getting started like there are ways
there are angles and I think it goes
back to what you keep bringing up which
is that story and that brand that you
have to truly know um in order to figure
out your unique value proposition so I
absolutely love that um I would love to
talk about a sensitive subject that not
very many people talk about when it
comes to branding and and that's or
excuse me brand deals and that's like
charging and how much do you charge and
how and how do you figure out rates and
I know money can oftentimes be a taboo
thing um and the famous words of uh of
every marketer and entrepreneurs it
depends but I'd love to get your
thoughts around like how do people even
get a baseline of what they should
charge what they should ask for what is
reasonable and uh what is a little
unrealistic yeah so I mean back in like
2017 2018 the Baseline that we would
always use would be the number of your
followers and you would multiply that by
0.01% and then that's going to give you
a baseline but there's a caveat to that
and that is it depends and I think that
so much has changed between back then
and now when it's really not about your
follower number as much as it's about
your engagement rate um micro and Nano
influencers have way big a way bigger
pool to be able to negotiate
negotiating is a huge part when it comes
to Brand deals which is why you know in
in various programs of mine I mean I
have an entire you know module on
negotiating and the importance of that
and really understanding again what your
value is and what it is that you're
bringing to the table so I think that
and and too like you said brands are
more sophisticated now and so I think
that in the beginning when I was first
doing brand deals there was a lot of
like throwing money at places to kind of
see what the ROI was there has been um
more sophistication that has happened in
the industry now so it's not so much of
that I know content creators that
probably weren't really pulling in a big
Roi for Brands back then that were
making probably more money than they
should have back then but as we talked
about at the beginning of our
conversation sustainability is key here
and how do you make sure that you're
here a year from now five years from now
is that you really start to tap in to
what your value is and I think that with
opportunities now like user generated
content where your following number
literally does not matter because
they're not paying you to create content
to tap into your audience they're paying
you to to create content for them so
they can leverage more of their own
marketing and AD abilities um and that's
kind of like what I was doing with that
story that I shared the People magazine
story I was kind of creating ugc content
but we just didn't call it that at the
time um and so with that I think it's
it's again about tapping into what are
you bringing to the table where are you
now also asking questions you know
there's a in my program pige perfect we
actually have um we call it the brand
deal database it's a dat database that
we've been collecting um between us and
our 10,000 student pool over the years
that gives you all the information of
what was the brand deal was it pitched
or or caught meaning did you pitch it or
did you receive it who is the contact to
the brand what were the deliverables
what was the initial offer what did you
negotiate the offer for how much money
did you end up making did you get a
return deal from it and so I think that
having access to information like that
is is vital and key otherwise you don't
really know what you don't know and you
could be leaving a lot of money on the
table or you could be essentially
overpricing yourself so I think that
either you know talking to fellow cre
content creator friends of yours or
tapping into programs and networks that
have that type of information available
to you is key because that's the fastest
way to learn is by figuring out how
somebody else did it which is why we
have that database available um but I
think that that's the Baseline of just
kind of getting that engagement follower
at at this point in 2024 there's
calculators and things out there that
you can Google but I say from that
Baseline you want to be thinking about
what are they asking me to do how much
time is this going to take what are the
terms you know is there an exclusivity
attached to this which means that it's
going to take me out of potential other
deals with other brands and partners um
other things to consider is you know how
long is this piece of content going to
be on social media or on my YouTube or
on my blog is it in perpetuity because
that's a really long time so should
there be some term limits there so we
can negotiate is there other
opportunities for that I could kind of
Leverage this because it's also not just
about the money too either Brock
especially in the beginning when a
Creator is trying to grow I feel that
yes money is important because we need
to make money but I feel like for
creators that are just getting started
brand awareness is just as valuable as
actual making money so is there an
opportunity in this brand deal where
this brand can actually promote me to
help me get more followers more reach
more Impressions to get my content out
there to my ideal audience because that
is then going to support your brand for
the long term in a really deep way and
so there's all these different types of
things that you need to consider and
what is really the most important thing
to you right now um another thing that I
get asked about a lot is gifted
opportunities versus paid opportunities
and the way that I look at it just like
my World Market People magazine story
that I shared the value of that gifted
opportunity far outweighed the money
that I could have potentially gotten
paid for that that the gifted
opportunity was what I was looking for
so you have to really be thinking about
like is the is the exchange of value you
know balancing out here what is the
return on investment is this worth my
time my energy to create the content to
do what it is that they're asking me to
do and I think that all of those things
really factor into the total value of
what a potential brand partnership could
be totally that totally makes sense and
I love that kind of the way of thinking
about it is of pitching or catching the
brand deal so putting you on the spot to
come up with a random percentage here um
from what you've seen let's cut the uh
criteria at 100,000 followers so I would
assume that's 99% of our listeners who
have less than 100,000 followers what
percentage of the brand deals that
they're getting are caught verses are
pitched I would say so Nano influencers
are going to have 10K or less followers
and then micro or 100K or less and I
would say that for the 10K or less over
95% of the brand deals that they're
getting are pitched there's another
within that 5% if there's if they're a
part of those third Market companies
that like you put in your information
and then they'll send you deals like hey
for $200 you can post about this or that
um those kind of more brand deal
agencies if you will that's a little
piece of that as you start to build up
to more of that maybe 10K to to 50K
you're probably still looking at like an
80 to 20 once you start to hit over 100%
depending on how consistent you are with
brand Partnerships and content Creation
in general if that's one of the primary
revenue streams of your business you're
probably looking at more of a 5050 and
so I love to tell people that like if
you're not pitching right now like
you're currently potentially leaving 50
to 90% of your money on the table
totally that makes sense that that's
helpful to know and that's I think that
should give in a good framework for how
much if nothing else they should be
pitching um you brought up like these
thirdparty websites where you can kind
of like put in your info and you get
kind of these generic uh you know take
it or leave it type brand deals what are
your thoughts around those versus an
agency versus an agent versus just
handling it all yourself and maybe even
you know like at what point should you
consider bringing on someone or or an
agency like somebody uh to help you out
yeah so there's a few layers to this
question the first thing that I want to
say and this kind of goes back to what
we were just talking about with with
pitching the other Pro to pitching is
not just the money but it's the
relationships that you build
relationships in any kind of personal
brand business is is everything I mean
the reason why I have gotten every
single brand deal that I've ever gotten
I've gotten I've made over eight figures
just in brand Partnerships alone since I
started in
2014 it it's all through relationships
um and then those relationship lead to
other things like me being able to speak
on stages me getting a a book deal I
mean just so many other attributes to
building a personal brand comes to the
relationships and so I believe in the
power of pitching to not only kind of
sink your teeth into how to negotiate
how to build that confidence muscle how
to really you know talk the language but
to build the relationship because when
you are essentially doing that you're
cutting out the middle man so and that
kind of leads me into my next thing when
it comes to those third-party companies
I think that when you're just starting
out it's fine to do them because again
it's going to be a great learning curve
for somebody they're going to learn
about the types of Partnerships that
they like and don't like the types of
content that they like to create and
don't like to create the types of
content that Their audience at the time
is resonating with the most um how much
work and time it actually takes someone
to produce a piece of content there may
be somebody listening that can whip up a
reel in five minutes but it may take
somebody else 35 minutes because they
haven't really gotten their time
management dialed in and so I think that
in the beginning phases for the trial
and erron to really learn they're great
however there needs to be a point where
you pivot out of those because like you
said Brock you have uh pretty much no
negotiating power in those I mean they
send these Ironclad contracts you cannot
Redline them a lot of times everything
is in perpetuity you don't own the
rights to anything and so I just would
be weary about attaching my name to
something like that for a long term um
but I think in the beginning it can be
use ful and then as you start to grow
and build you should be looking to
pitching your own opportunities whether
that's to you know the brand the brand
reps to agencies that work with Brands
um you can start pitching in that way
and then to answer your final question
about you know a manager and an agent
how do you know if you need one the
simple answer is if you've got so much
inbound of brand Partnerships coming in
that you literally cannot handle it
yourself or if you're just spending your
you know 100% of your time negot ating
your deals and closing contracts that
you actually can't create your content
that is a sure fire sign that it's time
to look to partner with somebody who you
know aligns with your same Mission and
values they see the vision of where you
want to go and they want to support you
in that what you don't want to do is
partner with an agency who's just going
to be catching all of your stuff and not
actively pitching for you so that's
another thing to look out for because
otherwise what's the win for you you're
just you're now giving 15 to 20% of your
income to somebody but they're not
helping bring in more income to
supplement that percentage that they
take so that's just something else to
kind of keep in mind but that's really
that's really the the sure fire sign
that it's time for you to get support
and to be honest like a manager or an
agent's not going to take anyone on
until they have a breath of you know
Partnerships that they can actually
manage on their behalf yeah that that
totally makes sense and to speak from
personal experience that's pretty much
how it went for me I don't think I I
just started working with an agent uh
within the last few months and it was
something that I didn't even explore or
think about um until I was at like
600,000 followers and I had a lot of
inbound messages and it was kind of to
the point where it was like you know I
I'm getting so many inbound exactly like
you just said I can't create I can't
keep up also I'm not type A so I'm not
good at like reading through the
contracts and keeping up with deadlines
and all that I need someone to kind of
help me do that and so I was very
selective and finding an agency it came
recommended from a friend and um it's an
agency that has allowed me to make more
money because he's been negotiating on
my behalf which is something that I also
admittedly uh wasn't the best at and
felt a little bit uncomfortable doing
even at times um but all that to say it
took seven years of me having this
personal brand and growing online and
doing brand deals before I went that
route so I just wanted to Echo what you
were saying I would love to to end by
just kind of giving you the mic to say
whatever it is that you would like to
share with our audience any words of
wisdom or uh big takeaways that you want
them to have from today's episode yeah
thank you for that I I think that when
it comes to this idea of of brand and
building a personal brand and brand
Partnerships um there's there's a couple
of things here I think that brand
Partnerships are amazing and great but
that's only like one way to kind of skin
the cat something that I have noticed
because I've been in this field of
coaching and training people how to do
this for so long and I have so much
experience of doing it myself is that
there's going to come a time in a place
where brand Partnerships are just one
thing and there's going to there's going
to need need to be another Outlet or
Avenue for you to actually create your
own products and services not only is
that going to open up different revenue
streams for you but again it's just
going to help amplify the personal brand
and so it's kind of like I was saying
earlier where I started with brand
Partnerships and you know affiliate
income but then from there came you know
products like online courses and then
came coaching and then came a book deal
and then came speaking and then came
hosting Live Events and you know from
that came more of what I believe is is a
tried and true thought leadership
personal brand and so depend in on what
you really want you you got to get kind
of clear about what that long game
strategy is earlier on so you know where
you're going and I think that that's a
big thing that people they kind of start
to lose their way because they're just
thinking so shortterm and short-sided I
just want to get brand deals I just want
to work with Brands yeah but why like
the money's great the awareness great
it's fun to get fun product you know the
the accolades may be great to say I am
partnering with so and so brand but like
where is this actually moving your brand
to because I think that that really
helps you stay in line with a longer
term strategy on where you're going
again based on that brand Discovery
piece of what it is that you want for
your business and life I totally agree
well I also want to give a shout out to
your podcast the influencer podcast
which I know I will be on soon Julie's
podcast comes out on Mondays and
Wednesdays and build your tribe comes
out on Tuesdays and Thursdays so Monday
through Thursday you could have an
episode every single day with tons of
Juicy knowledge I also want to give
another shout out to uh that boot camp
that you have coming up the link for
that will be down in the show notes
below but Julie thank you so much for
being on today you're wealth of
knowledge I'm sure we could keep talking
for another few hours but uh thank you
so much for being here really appreciate
it thank you for having me thank you so
much for listening today and again you
can find every link down in the show
notes below whether it's to Julie's
podcast to her upcoming Boot Camp or to
her social medias thank you so much for
listening and as always happy
networking
[Music]
w